---
layout: post
title: "SYRIZA, Brussels, and the Battle for a People’s Europe"
dutch: "syriza-brussel-en-de-strijd"
---

It’s not a matter of chance that the EU’s deepest crisis coincides with
the greatest challenges the Left in Europe has faced for a generation. The
battle-lines between the neoliberal European project and the continent’s
progressive movements are being drawn right now, and suddenly anything
seems possible.

While the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the
International Monetary Fund join forces with conservative governments of
every stripe to enforce Greek economic destruction — and regime change —
SYRIZA’s courageous struggle gives us all a shocking foretaste of the
storm of establishment backlash that awaits any progressive movements
capable of knocking on the doors of real power in Europe. The true agenda
of the EU establishment is being exposed more clearly than ever before:
How did it come to this? Where might it all lead? And how is Europe’s Left
shaping up for the fight?

Three top-level international speakers will discuss these and other
aspects, followed by an interactive round-table discussion:

**Alex Kypriotakis Weijers,** SYRIZA Youth in The Netherlands: What
exactly is SYRIZA, and how did they manage to organise and mobilise to
challenge the very foundations of the EURO? And what will the referendum
result mean for the government, SYRIZA itself, and the broader Greek left?

**Dennis de Jong,** Member of the European Parliament for the Dutch
Socialist Party: How is this deeply ideological battle being expressed
within the structures of Europe itself, and what chances offer themselves
for the genuine left — both old and new — on the European parliamentary
and governmental level?

**Dick Nichols,** Barcelona — Veteran International Journalist, expert on
European left politics: How are Europe’s progressive forces — from Spain’s
new Indignados movement to established parties of the far left, and
everything in between — responding to today’s enormous challenges and
opportunities? What can we learn from each other? And what might the main
elements of a coordinated response be?

_SYRIZA, Brussels, and the Battle for a People’s Europe: Friday July 10, 20:00
— 22:00 (open from 19:30). Location: Gaffelstraat 61B. Free entrance. In English._

_This event can also be shared on [Facebook] (https://www.facebook.com/events/1545010272395706/)._
